it's almost Q4 Black Friday Cyber Monday
is coming up so when are we going to
create offers when is the deadline for
well the Black Friday Cyber Monday
landing pages when do we need to have
the Black Friday ceremony specific seal
ads inside of our account how are we
going to make sure that everything runs
battery smooth so what types of
automation are we going to use automatic
rules scripts
etc etc
do you have GM everybody welcome back to
the PPC Mastery podcast today we have a
really nice topic and it is how to
prioritize work throughout your week or
specifically optimizations
so let's just dive in man because you're
working on something really cool
optimization checklist like maybe just
briefly introduce like that what what
are you what are you building right now
I think it's because it's going to be
really really cool
is going to be epic at least that's what
what we think so what are we building
we're building a really extensive
detailed optimization checklist that is
covering all of the different campaign
types from search to Performance Max to
video for Action campaigns it is telling
you what things to monitor what checks
to perform but also what kind of
optimizations you can do or should do or
at least take a look at what frequency
is applicable to the checks and the
optimizations and what the potential
impact of these checks and optimizations
could be so this is a really well a sort
of mastered document that you can use to
to plan optimizations experiments
monitoring slash checks across your work
week for all of your different clients
if you work for different clients at
least so it's going to be a kick-ass
document with a lot of rows a lot of
checks yeah so it's going to be epic
yeah I've seen I've seen V1 and it's
already
like now what it is now it's already so
good but can't wait until we until we
finish it so in the in the realm of
optimization can you maybe Define what
you think optimization means in the
context of Google ads and what are the
categories that apply within that
optimization structure
um yeah so I think when people are
mentioning optimizations they also mean
monitoring and Performing checks
checking performance performances week
on week month on month checking
performances for different segments like
location devices audiences keyword
segments Etc it is not solely just
optimization optimizations it's also
checks monitoring and experimentation as
well and I think all of that is part of
the the category optimization when we
talk about optimization so basically we
have three overarching optimization
categories at least that's how I feel
feel it and how I look at things number
one those are the regular monitoring
checks and regular optimizations so
these are the things that come back
every single week every single two weeks
every single month and every single
quarter so the regular stuff like
keywords adding keywords going through
your search and Report excluding
negatives optimizing your your ads
assets experimenting with well
optimizing your campaign structure so
these are all your regular optimization
checks then we have number two and these
are your one-off high impact
improvements or potentially high impact
improvements and these are often the
bigger one-off tasks like implementing
specific Advanced conversion tracking
features that you haven't implemented
before but are on your to-do list on
your backlog so that's number two and
then number three we have the
experiments so next to your regular
optimizations going through your social
reports excluding negatives etc etc you
also have a experiment bucket
where you have to continuously work on
in order to bring your account to a
higher level and look for ways to
drastically improve performance for
example finding offers experimenting
with different RSA assets experimenting
with different fun URLs in order to
improve conversion rates so these are
not regular optimizations these are
always different and they should be
prioritized differently so that's the
core overarching few I think that's I
think it's interesting view because I
think a lot of people struggle with the
with the experimentation side and
running solid experiments and I think
we'll get to that in a second so
since there is always so much so much
that you can do at the same time how do
you prioritize your optimization so how
do you allocate your time in your week
do you use any systems to keep track of
your optimization of the of the progress
and how do you communicate the
importance of prioritization to your
stakeholders any thoughts there
yeah so we're talking regular
optimizations over here so these are the
things that are returning every single
over a single time period weekly
bi-weekly monthly quarterly so I have
built a extensive Google sheet for
myself in the past that I use for all of
my clients that I'm refining right now
in order to use sapc Mastery product but
I keep track of all of my regular
optimizations inside of basically a big
big Google sheet that is tailored
towards every single client so the
frequency and the potentially potential
impact of certain optimizations is
different for every single client so if
you have a client that's doing 1 000
Euros per month in terms of spend you
need a lot of data in order to optimize
your ads for example or go through your
search and Report because you need a lot
of data in order to find a lot of
irrelevant Search terms so the frequency
can be lower in comparison to a client
that is doing 50 000 Euros a month in
terms of spend because you have way more
volumes over there and the potential
impact of specific optimizations can
wildly differ
so basically I use the same document but
with the same regular optimizations but
then I tailored the frequency and impact
per client
I keep track of the optimization date
inside of that document as well so it's
easy for me to see when the last time
when the when the last time was that I
performed a certain optimization so I
can look back in the document to see hey
this is something I did two months ago I
need to perform this check or this
optimization every quarter so next month
I have to prioritize this over a
specific other optimization inside of
the checklist yeah so that's how I keep
track of The Irregular optimizations
then we have the other two categories as
well so we have can I just quickly ask
yeah so about that you add in the date
to the sheet that's really solid do you
usually work from that spreadsheet or do
you also use a project management tool
like a notion Trello Asana Etc
for the regular optimizations and checks
I use the Google sheet I've tried
experimenting with a project project
management tool like Asana for this in
the past but since there are so many
checks and so many optimizations per
campaign type per sub category like ads
assets campaign structure keyword Search
terms it is becoming
wildly well unmanageable messy
unmanageable if you if you if you try to
put this in a project management tool
yeah and if you try to add well due
dates to all of the tasks it just
becomes a re just becomes a mess because
sometimes you need to shift and
prioritize some priority optimizations
over orders as well and it is really
hard to keep track of all of these
separate tasks if you manage more than
one client if you have just one account
I think it is good for your overview to
use a product management tool for this
but if you manage multiple clients and
you were to incorporate all of these
single optimizations which are more than
200 I think I think easily more than 300
then you're going to have a hard time
and in the in one of the previous
episodes you you thought you said
something that Dickie Bush often often
says about the project management tools
right can you repeat that yeah so if a
lot of times project management tools
can be a distraction of actually doing
the work because people people try to
build the perfect productivity system
and I try to do that in the past as well
but then in the end I was spending more
time in the tool like Asana or notion
than actually doing the task so yeah you
need to think to yourself like if you
have a good productivity system and it
works for you then by all means but if
you are trying to keep it perfect then
you're probably just distracting
yourself and running away from the task
it is actually important so if that's
the case and that's so true foreign
so for regular optimizations and checks
I do not use a project management tool
yeah for exactly that reason yeah but
for the other for the other regions
experimentation and one-off high impact
improvements I do use a project
management tool I do use notion for that
specific part
yeah Okay cool so when it comes to the
experiments which is the the second part
of it how do you prioritize those
because in the in the master class we
also have a lot of experiments that we
showed that was the everybody's favorite
Workshop all the time or during every
master class but how do you prioritize
your experiments and how much time do
you allocate to those versus the regular
optimizations
yeah so I like to use a really simple
framework a model to help me with the
prioritization of experiments and that's
called the ice scoring model the I
stands for impact
the potential impact the C stands for
confidence so how sure am I that this
will actually perform well
and the E stands for ease so how easy is
it to set up and those three combined
actually give you a score so I tend to
use a score ranging from 1 to 10 for
every single metric impact confidence is
and just add up all of the scores
combined and I just start with the
experiment that that has the highest
score because something that you think
has a great impact that you're really
confident about and that is really easy
to set up well those are the experiments
you need to start off with right if you
have a experiment idea that has a
potential high impact a high confidence
rate but is really difficult to set up
then you have to de-prioritize that over
the ones that are really easy to set up
so that's a really simple framework to
use at least that I like to use to
prioritize my experiments so I basically
have one big bucket
of all of my experiments ideas per
client I add them inside of just one big
experiment backlog and then use this
prioritization model in order to to
prioritize where to begin with
and when it comes to the time allocation
how much spend how much time do you
spend between the experiments versus the
regular optimizations
yeah good question so I always try to
find a good balance between the regular
optimizations and the experiments
between within an account generally I
try to allocate as much as time needed
within the available hours per client
for regular optimizations and checks so
I do not want to skip all of the
important regular work and all of the
time that is left I try to allocate
towards one-off high impact improvements
or experiments and generally I think gut
feeling wise I spent 70 percent of my
time towards regular optimizations and
30 percent maybe up to 40 percent
towards one-off improvements and
experiments that's how I try to allocate
my my time per client but it differs it
differs per client
because some accounts are really mature
and all of the regular optimizations
have already been performed in the past
so I have one client that is with me for
seven years already and if I check this
search and Report
The Search terms are so so relevant and
they're converting so good that I almost
didn't have any work to do checking the
sdrs but also doing engram exclusions
for example so for that client I have
way more time allocated towards the
experiment side of things because that's
the way to grow that specific account
yeah so it differs yeah that sounds like
a logical way to go about your account
as well like the the foundation in that
account as you said specifically is
really solid so then it makes sense to
spend a lot of time experimenting and do
you have some examples of the types of
experiments that you that you like to
run
yeah sure there
multiple multiple high level categories
where you can experiment in and within
every single category of multiple
experiments that you can run obviously
so when we take a look at the high level
experimentations then you can think
about experimenting with your ads that
could be your responsive search ads
Dynamic search ads responsive display
ads HTML5 ads video ads and inside of
all of those ad types you can experiment
with different items or different assets
then how you would like to call them so
you can swap out certain headlines
description lines that's with certain
images that's with different videos test
with auto well not kind of
auto-generated videos but the ones you
create inside of the creative Studio
versus the ones you you have from your
client so there are different ways to
experiment with your ads already you can
set them up in different ways you can
you can optimize your low perform
forming assets and swap them out for new
ones according to your ad testing
backlog and the ones you have
prioritized as well
you can also add in add variants or add
variations in order to split test
certain headlines for example benefits
versus features or swap out different
call to actions so there are already
multiple ways you can test within the
asset category only or ads and asset
category then you have find URLs so I
really like to test with finding URLs
for my Legion clients it's something
that I try to to control it's something
that I like to pull away from my clients
and pull towards myself so I'm
responsible for the whole customer
Journey so to say so I want to be in
control of the ads people see the the
Search terms my ads are being shown for
the targets that I have set the bidding
strategies that I use but also the URLs
that people are being redirected to and
what offer is being pushed towards those
potential clients and I really like to
split tests and optimize my landing
pages right now which is really cool to
do for Legion clients specifically
because it isn't really complicated to
set up relevant landing pages it is more
complicated for Ecom businesses because
you have all of these products right and
bundles and well it doesn't make sense
inside of the the the the the the
e-commerce navigation so to say but for
services SAS companies this is way
easier to do and that's why I like this
vertical because I can influence the
whole
before the click all the way to the
potential conversion good point and
those are really really really high
impact optimizations or experiments so
to say so it's something that I try to
allocate more of my time towards right
now because if you were to improve your
conversion rates by 25 that's a lot so
that's a lot that's a lot that's so much
more bidding power and it opens up so
much more volumes inside of your Google
ads campaigns where it also opens up
doors for experimenting with mid and
upper funnel campaign types because
those campaign types can become well
could have a good could have a good Roi
right now because your conversion rates
are improved so that's another way to to
experiment with different campaign types
do additional work for your clients as
well
yeah then we have some some other
categories as well think about campaign
and AD group structures testing with
different bidding strategies and or
targets audiences keywords testing with
offers on your landing pages so these
are some high level categories that I
like to experiment with yeah and there's
an endless list of things you can try to
experiment with so there's always
something to do yeah and that's going to
be the checklist yeah let's go to videos
that's going to be yeah
but I like how you emphasize the the
landing page optimization or cro
whatever you want to call it it is
probably part of cro but that is so it
is so crucial it means we've been saying
it for the last year or so like what
happens after the click is probably even
more important than what happens before
or at least the same and this is the
number one skill I think next to
mastering conversion tracking I think
the number one skill that you also need
to be developing in the upcoming months
and years if you want to stick out as a
as a standout as a Google ad specialist
like really definitely own yeah and what
you're doing now with those landing
pages you're really owning the whole
infrastructure for this client which
helps you drive the results that you
want because we've seen those examples
especially in Legion where someone just
builds a page with huge forms or you
know those kinds of mistakes and if you
control the entire landscape then it's
easier for you to drive those results
but you need to put in the time to
actually Master the craft and and be
able to build those landing pages so
yeah I'm really looking forward to build
a a mini course for this maybe something
that's called landing page Mastery or
something like that really looking
forward for that specific course because
I think there's so much knowledge to be
gained over there that can be utilized
by a lot of Google Specialists that are
that are stuck inside of the the app the
Google ads interface right now but I
think the impact is being made
outside of Google ads absolutely and are
you using any tools for your
optimization experimentation Etc
yeah so I have my big checklist with all
of the regular checks monitoring
optimization checks but I also like to
use two core tools that help me with
prioritization analysis and through
clicks those are the two that are I
think complementary to it to each other
so they have different checks different
categories they prioritize things
differently and by combining these two
tools you can easily see where to begin
your your your your your work day with
for example inside of analysis they give
you a alert a high impact alert if they
see that a specific ad group with high
volume keywords that drive a lot of
conversion volume is well is dropped or
dropped volumes and conversion rates
significantly or where the quality score
dropped so those are the things that
needs to be addressed immediately if you
are starting to work for that specific
client and you can combine these kinds
of alerts or suggestions with your own
Master checklist so to say so that's
what I like to to do yeah
yeah cool so what I what I this what I
dislike and what I try to prevent as
much as possible is to do all of the
manual analytics and segmenting myself
inside of my account because the tools
like analysis and true clicks can do
that way faster and way better than you
so they just tell you hey Bob if you're
going to to to work on this account
these are the problem areas that needs
to be addressed right now so you do not
have to find out yourself after an hour
of segmenting out your your weekly
performances on ad group level keyword
level whatever yeah yeah and
since there's you know not everything
always goes as planned with
experimentation with optimization is
there any example that you can share
from
something that didn't go according to
plan and what did you do to to change
that to Pivot
I think a raised example was within a an
Ecom account that I had
where we try to transition from a
revenue-based row as bidding strategy to
a profit-based rower strategy yeah so
essentially from row as to POS if you
would like to call it that way yeah and
it completely backfired so during the
transition phase we saw our volumes drop
dramatically and we try to do our best
to ramp up the volumes right after the
transition but we really couldn't
couldn't get the volumes On Target
anymore at least on the targets that we
were running prior to the transition so
after two weeks we decided to revert
back to the revenue based strategy and
we decided to use the profit on ad spend
metrics as a secondary well conversion
just for insights to decide what kind of
row as Target would be applicable for
certain categories and certain campaigns
so that completely backfired
unfortunately yeah so I've had
four transitions in the past and from
the other three transitions it worked
like a charm and of course we had like a
dip when we transitioned from Rose to
Boaz but then everything went went back
to normal and we got traction again but
for this specific case yeah it backfired
and the client became a little bit
anxious like yeah this is going this is
going in there in the right direction or
not should really referred I'm missing a
lot of Revenue so yeah I agreed with him
and I I said well let's go back yeah
yeah yeah there you you see that it
doesn't always go according to notebooks
no no that's why you need to know what
to do when it when hits the fan
yeah
yeah and sometimes it's just as simple
as just reverting the the stuff you did
yeah
and do you how do you align your Google
ads optimizations with your broader
marketing or business objectives or of
your clients and of course
so I try to find a good balance between
in-app optimizations because because
well in the end of the day we are all
Google ad Specialists so that's where
we're good at but if I sense that my job
is almost done inside of the app so
inside of Google ads and the
optimizations and the experiments left
aren't really impactful anymore that's
when I try to transition towards the
more broader optimization and that's
when I try to to incorporate a lot of
let me page testing a lot of zero ideas
a lot of AD testing ideas even crafting
better offers for my clients so that's
when I try to transition away from well
the simple stuff or at least it's simple
simple for us now but the general
optimization checks that you tend to do
as a Google specialist and that's
something that you have to do from your
gut feeling I think so sometimes you
feel
starting off with an account that
everything is running
streamlined like a well-oriented well
oiled machine
and if you have two or three secular
months with the same feeling you really
have to start thinking about
incorporating broader optimizations that
are outside of Google ads otherwise
people will start to question your your
edit value as well and that's something
that you do not want to to risk at least
nothing that I would like to risk yeah
absolutely you always want to make
impact yeah yeah all right so to wrap it
up do you have any advice for anyone
starting out in Google ads and looking
to refine their optimization process or
maybe even what advice would you give
yourself when you started out in Google
ads regarding the optimization process
so when when I started out as a
freelancer I really didn't
properly
document all of the things that I did
instead of an account and all of the
stuff that needed to be done so I just
said to my clients hey
this month I'm going to optimize some
regular some regular stuff and I'm going
to allocate my time towards regular
optimizations like excluding irrelevant
Search terms like performing an engram
analysis like adding creating new ad
groups based on some new interesting
Search terms that I found but these were
basically
well decided on during the meetings or
during the the contact I had with my
clients and right now I have a really
structured optimization experimentation
roadmap for the next couple of 90 days
so the next couple of three months so to
say so I know what I'm going to do and
what I'm going to prioritize and what
time is left for well specific wishes
from our clients or specific experiments
that we would like to perform or maybe a
one-off high impact improvements like
Advanced conversion tracking
implementations so I can instantly see
oh next month we have other things
prioritized already so that specific
wish
can be addressed over two months because
we've prioritized other things right now
and that really gives you a a calmness
that drops your stress levels it
increases your productivity because you
know what you're going to address and
what you're going to work on when you're
going to open the account and when you
have these specific hours planned for
your specific clients so that's
something that I didn't had in the first
year or first two years and I really
have refined that specific part right
now so if you're just starting out make
sure to create a extensive planning for
yourself that is reasonable given the
amount of hours you can allocate towards
your client
incorporate optimizations according to
the Three core categories so you address
not only your regular optimizations but
also experiments and high impact one-off
improvements so do not only do the
simple stuff but also in corporate
potentially high impact experiments for
example and give everything its own
chance in its own time and know what
you're going to address the next time
when you open the account yeah
let's have some really solid tips and
then you share the roadmap you share the
optimization yeah plan that you have you
share that with your clients right yeah
yeah so every quarter at least for my
bigger clients I tend to have a
quarterly meeting where we prioritize
the next quarter and also look back at
the previous quarter in terms of results
we take a look at the specific campaign
type specific categories services that
that we ran ads for what worked what
worked what didn't work what needs
attention where do we see big drops
because of maybe external factors how
can we prepare for those kinds of things
in the next quarter what's coming up so
it's almost Q4 Black Friday Cyber Monday
is coming up so when are we going to
create offers when is the deadline for
for well the Black Friday Cyber Monday
landing pages when do we have to when do
we have when do we need to have the
Black Friday Cyber Monday specific seal
ads inside of our account how are we
going to make sure that everything runs
buttery smooth so what types of
automation are we going to use automatic
rules scripts
etc etc so yeah it's a great moment to
look back at the things that that you
did and what you're going to do and
prioritize in the next quarter and that
really really really gives you a great
overview of what needs to be done and
gives you a great sense of rest yeah
nice cool so there you have it guys if
this won't help you structure your
optimization process then I don't know
what will but the optimization checklist
will yeah that will help you but it's
not it's not lost yet for for the PPC
hub first yeah exactly so yeah thanks
everybody for listening watching if you
have a question for us please head over
to ppcmastery.com podcast and there you
can submit the question for us to answer
during these episodes and yeah please
subscribe if you like it share it with
someone that might find this valuable
and until then we'll see you next time
peace peace
[Music]